Document AOT analysis warnings (#30967)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/deploying/native-aot/warnings/il3050.md

---
title: "IL3050: Avoid calling members annotated with 'RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute' when publishing as native AOT"

> description: "Members annotated with 'RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute' require code generation at runtime"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about arning IL3050: Members annotated with 'RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute' require code generation at run time"
```

ms.date: 09/01/2022
ms.topic: reference
ms.author: michals
author: MichalStrehovsky
f1_keywords:
  - "IL3050"
---
# IL3050: Avoid calling members annotated with 'RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute' when publishing as native AOT

## Cause

> When publishing an app as native AOT (for example, by setting the `PublishAot` property in a project to `true`), calling members annotated with the `RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute` attribute may result in exceptions at runtime. Members annotated with this attribute may require ability to dynamically create new code at runtime, and native AOT publishing model doesn't provide a way to generate native code at runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When publishing an app as native AOT (by setting the `PublishAot` property in a project to `true`), calling members annotated with the `RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute` attribute may result in exceptions at runtime. Members annotated with this attribute may require ability to dynamically create new code at runtime, and native AOT publishing model doesn't provide a way to generate native code at runtime.
```
Setting the PublishAot property is the only way to publish as native aot now.

Reviewer: When referring to the time during which an app runs, we have settled on "run time" for the docs.

Author: ```suggestion
When publishing an app as native AOT (by setting the `PublishAot` property in a project to `true`), calling members annotated with the `RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute` attribute may result in exceptions at run time. Members annotated with this attribute may require ability to dynamically create new code at run time, and native AOT publishing model doesn't provide a way to generate native code at run time.
```

## Rule description

<xref:System.Diagnostics.CodeAnalysis.RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute> indicates that the member references code that may require code generation at runtime.

## Example

```csharp
// AOT analysis warning IL3050: Program.<Main>$(String[]): Using member 'System.Type.MakeGenericType(Type[])'
// which has 'RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute' can break functionality when AOT compiling. The native code for
// this instantiation might not be available at runtime.
typeof(Generic<>).MakeGenericType(typeof(SomeStruct));

class Generic<T> { }

struct SomeStruct { }
```

## How to fix violations

> Members annotated with the 'RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute' attribute have a message intended to give useful information to users who are publishing as native AOT. Consider adapting existing code to the attribute's message or removing the violating call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Members annotated with the `RequiresDynamicCodeAttribute` attribute have a message that provides useful information to users who are publishing as native AOT. Consider adapting existing code to the attribute's message or removing the violating call.
```
